Q 1.What is TCP IP?
 The Internet protocol suite is the conceptual model and set of communications protocols used in the Internet and similar computer networks.

Q 2.What is URL?
A Uniform Resource Locator (URL), colloquially termed a web address is a reference to a web resource that specifies its location on a computer network and a mechanism for retrieving it. A URL is a specific type of Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) although many people use the two terms interchangeably. URLs occur most commonly to reference web pages (http), but are also used for file transfer (ftp), email (mailto), database access (JDBC), and many other applications.

Q 3.What is IP Address?
An Internet Protocol address (IP address) is a numerical label assigned to each device connected to a computer network that uses the Internet Protocol for communication.An IP address serves two main functions: host or network interface identification and location addressing.

Q 4.How does an IP address get assigned to your machine?
IP addresses are assigned to a host either dynamically as they join the network, or persistently by configuration of the host hardware or software. ... Dynamic IP addresses are assigned by network using Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP). DHCP is the most frequently used technology for assigning addresses

Q 5.What is a router?
A router is a networking device that forwards data packets between computer networks. Routers perform the traffic directing functions on the Internet. Data sent through the internet, such as a web page or email, is in the form of data packets.

Q 6.What is a switch?
A switch, in the context of networking is a high-speed device that receives incoming data packets and redirects them to their destination on a local area network. A LAN switch operates at the data link layer or the network layer of the OSI Model and, as such it can support all types of packet protocols.

Q 7.What is MAC address?
Media Access Control Address.A MAC address is a hardware identification number that uniquely identifies each device on a network.

Q 8.Data link layer? Mac addr
The data link layer, or layer 2, is the second layer of the seven-layer OSI model of computer networking. This layer is the protocol layer that transfers data between adjacent network nodes in a wide area network (WAN) or between nodes on the same local area network (LAN) segment. The data link layer provides the functional and procedural means to transfer data between network entities and might provide the means to detect and possibly correct errors that may occur in the physical layer

Q 9.Network: IP Layer
The IP (Internet Protocol) is a protocol that uses datagrams to communicate over a packet-switched network. The IP protocol operates at the network layer protocol of the OSI reference model and is a part of a suite of protocols known as TCP/IP

Q 10.Transport: TCP / UDP
There are two types of Internet Protocol (IP) traffic. They are TCP or Transmission Control Protocol and UDP or User Datagram Protocol. TCP is connection oriented – once a connection is established, data can be sent bidirectional. UDP is a simpler, connectionless Internet protocol. Multiple messages are sent as packets in chunks using UDP.

Q 11.Session
In the seven-layer OSI model of computer networking, the session layer is layer 5. The session layer provides the mechanism for opening, closing and managing a session between end-user application processes.

Q 12.Presenation
The presentation layer is the lowest layer at which application programmers consider data structure and presentation, instead of simply sending data in the form of datagrams or packets between hosts.